Hey, this is Will.
And in this lesson, I will be showing you how to create
GitHub forks.
So here I am logged into github.com.
And if you don't have a GitHub account,
you're going to need to create one
to progress with this course.
And I'm going to show you what GitHub forks are
and how we can go about creating them.
And the first thing I'm going to do
is I'm going to navigate to a particular repository,
and that repository is going to be
linuxacademy/cicd-pipeline-train-schedule/git.
If you check the description below this video,
you can find a link to that repository as well.
I'm just going to go to that repository
and I have the option here to click on this Fork button.
And this is the Linux Academy version of this repository.
And I have access to make changes to this repo,
but you're not going to have access to make changes
to this repo because everyone has to share this one repo.
So if you want to make changes to this code,
what you're going to want to do is create a fork.
And what creating a fork does
is it creates your own personal copy
of this entire repository, not just the source code,
but also all the change history and everything else
that is associated with a git repository.
So, I'm just going to click the Fork button
and you may have to select this if this box pops up.
Just select your account.
But that box won't pop up for everyone,
but I'm going to select my account.
And after a few moments,
it's going to create my personal fork of this repo.
Now, you'll notice this is essentially the same repo.
Everything in here looks the same, but if you look,
it's not linuxacademy/cicd-pipeline.
It is whboyd. That's my personal GitHub username.
And then you can also see that in the URL up here
at the top.
That's my personal copy of this repo.
In the next lesson,
I'm going to be demonstrating
how to work with git repositories.
And in order to prepare for that,
you're going to want to go ahead
and create your own personal fork of this repository.
And again, you can find that link
in the description to this video.
Now, one other useful feature that I want to show you
is this Clone or download button.
Later on, when you go to clone the repository,
you have to utilize a special URL
in order to tell git which repository you want to clone
and to make things a little easier for yourself.
You can click on this Clone or download button,
and it will give you the SSH path to this repository.
You can see it's just my username /cicd-pipeline.
You can click this little icon here to copy that string
when you get ready to clone your own fork of the repository.
So, that's just a useful feature.
You can type that URL out yourself,
but it's just nice to be able to go here and copy it.
So, that's how you create a fork
of a Git repository in GitHub.